[Music]
to any public transport etiquette rules
you should remember most people are
taught basic manners in their childhood
our parents teach us to give up our seat
for an older person not to make too much
noise and respect other people's space
but some people grow up and seem to
completely forget the rules of behavior
on public transport well if you aren't
going to be fined or sued for these
violations why bother
however sometimes a reproachful look or
fellow passengers angry remark can be
the worst punishment here are 20 things
you shouldn't forget when you're on
public transport but first of all hit
the red subscription button and ring the
notification bell these actions will
take you to the bright side of life
where you'll find loads of cool videos
you'll also be the first to find out
about daily updates on the channel 20
don't hold up the line this
recommendation is especially relevant
for transportation that involves
verification of identity and
presentation of personal documents this
often happens on trains International
buses and airplanes get all the
necessary papers ready in advance make
sure you have your passport and medical
insurance if it's needed this way when
the time comes to show everything to the
authorities you won't annoy other people
with the infamous where is it gone I
just had it in my hands at a security
checkpoint at the airport take off your
watch belt and shoes in advance make
sure it's easy to pull your laptop out
of your bag split up the necessities
before leaving home by putting some of
them into your carry-on bags and others
into your suitcase
this will make going through security
and boarding the plane much faster and
more comfortable 19 prepare the things
you need for your trip in advance if you
know that a long bus or train journey is
ahead of you prepare everything you need
beforehand you might need snacks gadgets
documents money and maybe a book now you
won't have to disturb your fellow
passengers by forcing them to stand up
in a moving vehicle
[Music]
don't forget that other passengers want
a place for their hand luggage two
manufacturers of long distance aircraft
and buses reduce the space allocated for
luggage to save money at the same time
the amount of luggage passengers usually
have for a long trip is quite extensive
if you have several bags place them on
the luggage shelf vertically so they
occupy less space
make sure there's free space for other
passengers belongings if there isn't
move some of your luggage under your
seat 17 offer help to your travel
companions if you offer your travel
companions help putting their luggage in
the overhead compartment you'll not only
earn their respect but also
significantly reduce the time it takes
other passengers to board not to mention
that it's the duty of any
self-respecting person to help the
elderly pregnant women and people with
disabilities 16 take off your backpack
or bulky purse when you enter public
transport if you have a large backpack
or a filled to the brim purse take it
off your shoulder and hold it in front
of you this will also help you keep your
personal belongings in sight reducing
the chance of something being stolen
from your back 15 don't comb your hair
or apply makeup in a public place it's
not acceptable to put on makeup or comb
and tie up your hair in a public place
it seems that girls try to save time by
applying their makeup in a subway car on
their way to work sorry it doesn't work
this way also if you prefer strong
perfume use it after you leave public
transport 14 ask people if they need
assistance before you help them if you
want to help a stranger especially
someone with limited physical
capabilities to enter a vehicle remember
to ask if they need your assistance
perhaps your fellow passenger feels more
comfortable and safe managing things on
their own
13 be attentive to people with kids it's
a matter of good manners to offer your
seat to a mother holding a baby and if
you see a pair
with a five-year-old child it might be a
good idea to offer them your seat so
they can both sit down but perhaps a 12
year old child is perfectly capable of
enduring a 20 minute train or bus trip
standing up 12 teach your kids the rules
of travel etiquette if your children
learn the rules of behaving on public
transport before a trip you'll save your
nerves and the nerves of the people
around you teach your kids to try to be
quiet explain to them how to behave in a
public place
and why it's a bad idea to cry a neck
perhaps you can reward them for their
good behavior at the end of the journey
11 be ready to offer your seat this
doesn't mean that you should give up a
comfortable seat you've booked in
advance for a person who didn't
prioritize their comfort and bought a
ticket at the last minute but if you're
traveling alone and family members were
unlucky and didn't get to sit next to
each other offer them the opportunity to
swap seats 10 don't take food with a
strong smell on a trip some people are
extremely sensitive to smells and you
can imagine what will happen if you
unwrap an odorous snack in an enclosed
bus or train the list of products that
are unpleasant for by standards includes
smoked products sandwiches with canned
fish tuna or sardines sausages boiled
eggs and sauerkraut fast food by the way
also has a sharp smell instead stock up
on fresh and dried fruits nuts yogurt
cereal bars or cookies 9 don't make loud
sounds that might irritate others these
loud sounds include your smart phone
ringing every two minutes a movie or
watching on a tablet music on your phone
a mobile game or a loud conversation
with a neighbor or on the phone first of
all use headphones for all activities
you engage in on your phone in a public
place secondly before starting a
conversation make sure you won't bother
anyone around you and keep your voice
quiet 8 be careful when we're climbing
your seat
whether you're able to get some sleep on
your journey depends on the type of
transport for example you probably won't
fall asleep in a subway car on
long-distance trains buses and airplanes
it's usually possible to recline your
seat if you want to have a nap however
due to the lack of space the passenger
sitting behind you might ask you not to
do this in this case an orthopedic
pillow will be of great help
such pillows will help you get a proper
rest without disturbing your neighbors 7
keep your umbrella closed in the rainy
season
public transport becomes even more
cramped in addition to bags each
passenger has to take an umbrella with
them when you're about to enter public
transport clothes open and then close
your umbrella again shake it out a few
steps away from other people when you
get inside keep your umbrella in the
fully closed position so as to not drip
on yourself or your neighbors keep it
low 6 avoid displays of affection on
public transport consider the feelings
of others and the example you're setting
to children who are on board and don't
forget about common decency
5 don't rush when you leave a vehicle
there's only one thing people want to do
faster than enter a vehicle and that's a
leave it in any case you shouldn't
forget about etiquette help those who
need assistance for example pregnant
women the elderly and people with
disabilities and make way for those who
run like there's a fire maybe there
really is one
in addition crowding near the exit is a
dubious venture not worth the save 20
seconds for remember the golden rule of
the escalator this rule is as follows
stand on the right walk on the left
unless you're in the UK of course in
this case do the opposite now you won't
be an obstacle for people who are in a
hurry
3 don't try to occupy another person
space on trips especially long ones
passengers are often aware of the lack
of space it can be a bit uncomfortable
for two people to share one armrest
in any case make sure that you and your
belongings do not interfere with other
passengers don't stretch your legs
don't touch the people sitting in front
of you and don't place your luggage
between the seats or under your
neighbor's feet to keep newspapers
folded keep newspapers and large
magazines folded so it's not to disturb
other passengers alternatively you can
save them for when you're in your office
or at home you can always read a book
while you commute one don't stare at
people no matter how fascinating your
neighbors book newspaper face or clothes
are don't stare at them it's rude and it
can make the person you've chosen for
your intent examination extremely
uncomfortable what are some other things
that people do in public transport that
irritate you beyond belief share your
feelings in the comments below if you
think some people had better watch this
video and learn their etiquette lessons
hit the like button and remember to
subscribe to our Channel
life is always more polite and cheerful
on the bright side
you